`-f fmt (input/output)`

_强制输入或输出文件格式。对于输入文件，通常会自动检测到格式，对于输出文件，则会从文件扩展名猜测格式，因此在大多数情况下不需要这个选项。_

- `-i url (input)`

输入文件文件地址

- `-y (global)`

不询问就覆盖输出文件。

- `-n (global)`

不要覆盖输出文件，如果指定的输出文件已经存在，则立即退出。

- `-stream_loop number (input)`

设置输入流循环次数。循环0表示没有循环，循环-1表示无限循环。

- `-c[:stream_specifier] codec (input/output,per-stream)`

- `-codec[:stream_specifier] codec (input/output,per-stream)`

为一个或多个流选择编码器(在输出文件之前使用)或解码器(在输入文件之前使用)。codec是一个解码器/编码器的名称或一个特殊的值拷贝(仅输出)，表明流不被重新编码。

例如

```shell script
ffmpeg -i INPUT -map 0 -c:v libx264 -c:a copy OUTPUT
```


使用libx264编码所有视频流并复制所有音频流。

对于每个流，应用最后匹配的c选项，如

```shell script
ffmpeg -i INPUT -map 0 -c copy -c:v:1 libx264 -c:a:137 libvorbis OUTPUT
```
 再如除了特殊设置外所有的流都由 c 匹配指定： >ffmpeg -i INPUT -map 0 -c copy -c 1 libx264 -c 137 libvorbis OUTPUT 这


will copy all the streams except the second video, which will be encoded with libx264, and the 138th audio, which will be encoded with libvorbis.

- -t duration (input/output)
When used as an input option (before -i), limit the duration of data read from the input file.

When used as an output option (before an output url), stop writing the output after its duration reaches duration.

duration must be a time duration specification, see (ffmpeg-utils)the Time duration section in the ffmpeg-utils(1) manual.

- -to and -t are mutually exclusive and -t has priority.

- -to position (input/output)
Stop writing the output or reading the input at position. position must be a time duration specification, see (ffmpeg-utils)the Time duration section in the ffmpeg-utils(1) manual.

- -to and -t are mutually exclusive and -t has priority.

- -fs limit_size (output)
Set the file size limit, expressed in bytes. No further chunk of bytes is written after the limit is exceeded. The size of the output file is slightly more than the requested file size.

- -ss position (input/output)
When used as an input option (before -i), seeks in this input file to position. Note that in most formats it is not possible to seek exactly, so ffmpeg will seek to the closest seek point before position. When transcoding and -accurate_seek is enabled (the default), this extra segment between the seek point and position will be decoded and discarded. When doing stream copy or when -noaccurate_seek is used, it will be preserved.

When used as an output option (before an output url), decodes but discards input until the timestamps reach position.

position must be a time duration specification, see (ffmpeg-utils)the Time duration section in the ffmpeg-utils(1) manual.

- -sseof position (input)
Like the -ss option but relative to the "end of file". That is negative values are earlier in the file, 0 is at EOF.

- -itsoffset offset (input)
Set the input time offset.

offset must be a time duration specification, see (ffmpeg-utils)the Time duration section in the ffmpeg-utils(1) manual.

The offset is added to the timestamps of the input files. Specifying a positive offset means that the corresponding streams are delayed by the time duration specified in offset.

- -itsscale scale (input,per-stream)
Rescale input timestamps. scale should be a floating point number.

- -timestamp date (output)
Set the recording timestamp in the container.

date must be a date specification, see (ffmpeg-utils)the Date section in the ffmpeg-utils(1) manual.

- -metadata[:metadata_specifier] key=value (output,per-metadata)
Set a metadata key/value pair.

An optional metadata_specifier may be given to set metadata on streams, chapters or programs. See -map_metadata documentation for details.

This option overrides metadata set with -map_metadata. It is also possible to delete metadata by using an empty value.

For example, for setting the title in the output file:

ffmpeg -i in.avi -metadata title="my title" out.flv
To set the language of the first audio stream:

ffmpeg -i INPUT -metadata:s:a:0 language=eng OUTPUT
- -disposition[:stream_specifier] value (output,per-stream)
Sets the disposition for a stream.

This option overrides the disposition copied from the input stream. It is also possible to delete the disposition by setting it to 0.

The following dispositions are recognized:

default
dub
original
comment
lyrics
karaoke
forced
hearing_impaired
visual_impaired
clean_effects
attached_pic
captions
descriptions
dependent
metadata
For example, to make the second audio stream the default stream:

ffmpeg -i in.mkv -c copy -disposition:a:1 default out.mkv
To make the second subtitle stream the default stream and remove the default disposition from the first subtitle stream:

ffmpeg -i in.mkv -c copy -disposition:s:0 0 -disposition:s:1 default out.mkv
To add an embedded cover/thumbnail:

ffmpeg -i in.mp4 -i IMAGE -map 0 -map 1 -c copy -c:v:1 png -disposition:v:1 attached_pic out.mp4
Not all muxers support embedded thumbnails, and those who do, only support a few formats, like JPEG or PNG.

- -program [title=title:][program_num=program_num:]st=stream[:st=stream...] (output)
Creates a program with the specified title, program_num and adds the specified stream(s) to it.

- -target type (output)
Specify target file type (vcd, svcd, dvd, dv, dv50). type may be prefixed with pal-, ntsc- or film- to use the corresponding standard. All the format options (bitrate, codecs, buffer sizes) are then set automatically. You can just type:

ffmpeg -i myfile.avi -target vcd /tmp/vcd.mpg
Nevertheless you can specify additional options as long as you know they do not conflict with the standard, as in:

ffmpeg -i myfile.avi -target vcd -bf 2 /tmp/vcd.mpg
- -dn (input/output)
As an input option, blocks all data streams of a file from being filtered or being automatically selected or mapped for any output. See -discard option to disable streams individually.

As an output option, disables data recording i.e. automatic selection or mapping of any data stream. For full manual control see the -map option.

- -dframes number (output)
Set the number of data frames to output. This is an obsolete alias for -frames:d, which you should use instead.

- -frames[:stream_specifier] framecount (output,per-stream)
Stop writing to the stream after framecount frames.

- -q[:stream_specifier] q (output,per-stream)
- -qscale[:stream_specifier] q (output,per-stream)
Use fixed quality scale (VBR). The meaning of q/qscale is codec-dependent. If qscale is used without a stream_specifier then it applies only to the video stream, this is to maintain compatibility with previous behavior and as specifying the same codec specific value to 2 different codecs that is audio and video generally is not what is intended when no stream_specifier is used.

- -filter[:stream_specifier] filtergraph (output,per-stream)
Create the filtergraph specified by filtergraph and use it to filter the stream.

filtergraph is a description of the filtergraph to apply to the stream, and must have a single input and a single output of the same type of the stream. In the filtergraph, the input is associated to the label in, and the output to the label out. See the ffmpeg-filters manual for more information about the filtergraph syntax.

See the -filter_complex option if you want to create filtergraphs with multiple inputs and/or outputs.

- -filter_script[:stream_specifier] filename (output,per-stream)
This option is similar to -filter, the only difference is that its argument is the name of the file from which a filtergraph description is to be read.

- -filter_threads nb_threads (global)
Defines how many threads are used to process a filter pipeline. Each pipeline will produce a thread pool with this many threads available for parallel processing. The default is the number of available CPUs.

- -pre[:stream_specifier] preset_name (output,per-stream)
Specify the preset for matching stream(s).

- -stats (global)
Print encoding progress/statistics. It is on by default, to explicitly disable it you need to specify -nostats.

- -progress url (global)
Send program-friendly progress information to url.

Progress information is written approximately every second and at the end of the encoding process. It is made of "key=value" lines. key consists of only alphanumeric characters. The last key of a sequence of progress information is always "progress".

- -stdin
Enable interaction on standard input. On by default unless standard input is used as an input. To explicitly disable interaction you need to specify -nostdin.

Disabling interaction on standard input is useful, for example, if ffmpeg is in the background process group. Roughly the same result can be achieved with ffmpeg ... < /dev/null but it requires a shell.

- -debug_ts (global)
Print timestamp information. It is off by default. This option is mostly useful for testing and debugging purposes, and the output format may change from one version to another, so it should not be employed by portable scripts.

See also the option -fdebug ts.

- -attach filename (output)
Add an attachment to the output file. This is supported by a few formats like Matroska for e.g. fonts used in rendering subtitles. Attachments are implemented as a specific type of stream, so this option will add a new stream to the file. It is then possible to use per-stream options on this stream in the usual way. Attachment streams created with this option will be created after all the other streams (i.e. those created with -map or automatic mappings).

Note that for Matroska you also have to set the mimetype metadata tag:

ffmpeg -i INPUT -attach DejaVuSans.ttf -metadata:s:2 mimetype=application/x-truetype-font out.mkv
(assuming that the attachment stream will be third in the output file).

- -dump_attachment[:stream_specifier] filename (input,per-stream)
Extract the matching attachment stream into a file named filename. If filename is empty, then the value of the filename metadata tag will be used.

E.g. to extract the first attachment to a file named ’out.ttf’:

ffmpeg -dump_attachment:t:0 out.ttf -i INPUT
To extract all attachments to files determined by the filename tag:

ffmpeg -dump_attachment:t "" -i INPUT
Technical note – attachments are implemented as codec extradata, so this option can actually be used to extract extradata from any stream, not just attachments.

- -noautorotate
Disable automatically rotating video based on file metadata.